You students are really like beautiful trees planted along the River Gilead.
Jeremiah chapter 17 and verse 8 describes such beautiful trees.
Let's read that together.
Jeremiah chapter 17 and verse 8, it says he will become like a tree planted by the waters
that sends out its roots to the stream.
He will not notice when he comes, but his leaves will always flourish.
And in the year of drought, he will not be anxious, nor will he quit producing fruit.
Well, you've enjoyed the spiritual waters taught here at Gilead.
And as you graduate today and you go off to your assignments,
your leaves are flourishing and you're producing fruit, figuratively speaking.
Now, did you notice, though, in verse 8, what the righteous trees had to deal with?
It says, when the heat comes and in the year of drought.
Now, it doesn't say not if the heat comes, but when the heat comes.
So what is that heat and the year of drought?
Well, there are many forms of heat we deal with in addition to what you
considered about this verse in class.
I'd like to focus on one particular form of heat, and that is persecution.
Restrictions on our work and bands are designed to create fear.
Negative articles in the media about Jehovah's Witnesses are designed to create doubt.
Religious leaders and opposers, they attack our neutrality,
our clear support for the Bible's view of sex and marriage,
or discipline by dispeloshipping and other matters.
And add to that that some of our brothers are being rounded up and thrown into prison,
we can say that Satan has truly turned up the heat.
What will happen to the trees?
Will fear and doubt cause them to shrivel up and die during the drought?
No.
If you notice there in verse 8, Jehovah says the righteous will not notice the heat
and not be anxious in the drought.
Well, why is Jehovah confident that the righteous trees won't notice the heat
and won't whither up in the drought?
Look at verse 7 of Jeremiah 17.
Is as blessed as the man who puts his trust in Jehovah,
whose confidence is in Jehovah?
So what will you do in the year of drought?
Trust in Jehovah?
You see, Satan wants to destroy our trust in Jehovah,
right from the very first with Eve.
Is it really so?
His whole system is built on fear, uncertainty, and doubt.
Persecution we could liken it to when you're in an airplane
and it has some turbulence and it begins to shake.
One flight I was on, there was one woman that cried in terror.
She screamed out loud every time the plane shook even just a little.
I mean, she was genuinely terrified.
I felt sorry for her.
But the experienced flyers, they were eating, reading, watching movies.
They didn't even notice the turbulence.
Why?
Well, from experience, they knew that the plane could easily
handle such small amount of turbulence
and they were not worried.
It was designed for that.
Well, we are like experienced flyers.
We don't let the turbulence or persecution
of this system cause us fear or doubt.
With Jehovah and Jesus as our pilots,
we don't need to be anxious, do we?
Let's consider two ways that we can show trust in Jehovah's,
Jeremiah 17, seven says.
First, we're going to talk about trusting the faithful
and discreet slave and trusting Bible principles.
Let's talk first about trusting the faithful and discreet slave.
The faithful and discreet slave has been selected
and appointed by Jehovah and experience is shown we can trust them.
You see, trust is built by repeated good experiences.
Think of all the good experiences we've
had with the faithful and discreet slave
and following their direction.
Now, some might reason, well, you know,
the direction from the faithful and discreet slave
is good for the United States.
But they don't understand here.
They don't understand my assignment where I've been assigned.
We need to do things differently.
Trust in the faithful and discreet slave is not geographical.
Jehovah's direction through the faithful and discreet slave
applies to all of God's people all over the earth.
See, fear is really a loss of memory
of what Jehovah has done for us.
Satan wants us to forget all the good experiences
we've had with the faithful and discreet slave
and let one moment of fear get to us
and cause us to wither in the heat.
Second Thessalonians chapter 2 and verse 2 says,
not to be quickly shaken from your reason
nor to be alarmed, especially at rumors.
Now, your trust in the faithful and discreet slave
is going to be put to the test.
Satan will make sure of that.
It could be your own thoughts.
I know better.
Or maybe some twisted lies you read or hear.
Either way, it's a trap.
Stay away from such ideas.
Trust what you know about the faithful and discreet slave.
Isaiah 30, 15 says, your strength will be in keeping calm
and showing trust.
Remember, the faithful and discreet slave
has been selected and appointed by Jehovah.
And our experience has shown that we can trust them.
Now, let's consider trusting Bible principles
or second point.
See, Bible principles are timeless pearls of wisdom
from Jehovah.
But many people today attack our decision
to live by Bible principles in this modern world.
They say that's outdated.
However, we trust Bible principles
because experience tells us they always work.
One sister asked, what helps her to be calm
and very difficult to try in situations
and she said, give me a scripture.
Jesus' mother Mary had that same give me a scripture attitude.
Luke 251 says that Mary made it her habit
to keep these sayings in her heart.
See, Mary was really like a tree soaking in all of these waters
of Jesus teaching and his amazing miracles.
While the heat for Mary came when the Pharisees and Sadducees
maybe even her own family, their neighbors
began to attack Jesus, call him names,
slander his reputation and attack his motives.
What helped Mary to deal with the heat,
those waters that she had treasured up in her heart?
What Bible principles and experiences
are you keeping in your heart to help you
when you come under attack?
Be like Mary and keep in your heart
your good experiences in applying Bible principles.
Stick to what you know works, Bible principles.
They always work and they never get out of date.
Not you or anyone else can come up
with better principles to live by.
Remember, we trust Bible principles
because they come from Jehovah
and our own experience tells us they always work.
Now, trusting the faithful and discreet slave
and trusting the Bible are just two of many ways
that we can show that we trust Jehovah.
So what will you do in the year of drought?
Trust in Jehovah.
I mean, think of the birds.
When they're flying high up there,
are they worried, oh, I think I'm gonna fall?
I'm really worried.
Well, no, birds don't worry about that, do they?
Why?
Well, they rely on the wings and instincts
Jehovah gave them, they can fly.
Likewise, we don't need to be anxious
when faced with lies, bans, or attacks
on our Bible principles.
Jehovah has given us what we need to fly, so to speak,
the faithful and discreet slave,
Bible principles, prayer, holy spirit, and more.
As we had further into the system
as the heat from this system intensifies, remember,
fear and doubt are reactions,
but our decision is trust and courage.